>> Kyle Simpson: The first thing that
we're gonna do is actually not in
a service worker, we're gonna start
adding some code so that our blog page
is able to detect when the user
has gone into an offline mode.
And to indicate to the user that
they are in an offline mode.
And part of the reason for that is
from a user experience perspective.
Users want to know what to expect when
they're about to click a button or
do something.
They don't wanna click a button and
then be like, well, thanks for telling me.
They would like to be able to know in
advance that something happened or
that something is gonna happen.
So giving them just some
sort of visual indication,
it doesn't have to be
blaring in their face but
giving them a visual indication, what
you're about to do might not work or what
you're about to do may work differently,
that's a good friendly way of doing that.
So that's our first task before we even
do the service worker, we just want for
this site to be able to figure out,
am I online or not.
And there's an API for that, and
there's some events for that.
So that's our first task.
So what I want you to do is
switch over to your editor.
And I open up again,
we're in the SW exercise directory,
in the web/JS directory,
there's a couple of JavaScript files,
there's blog.JS and SW.JS,
that's going to be our service worker.
So we're going to be working
heavily with these two.
Later in the exercise we'll work through a
couple of other files, but for right now,
we're gonna mostly focus our
time on these two files.
I already have indicated, you can see
I already have indicated that there's
an offline icon already in the page,
it's just not being used.
So we're gonna toggle that to
visible whenever we've detected
that they are offline.
So the first thing we need to know is,
when we first load the page, generally
speaking we are online at that point but
when we first load the page we
want to know are we online.
So I'm gonna make a variable
called isOnline similar to this
isLoggedIn which i'll explain in just
a moment, but this one is going to look
at the built-in detector for
online status, so there is
a property on the navigator object.
So we're going to say if and
we need to feature detect whether
this property is even available.
If on capital L line it's weird if on
capital L line in navigator that lets us
know that this browser supports that API.
And pretty much all of them
that you'll encounter do,
but it's always a good idea to
just be a little bit careful.
If it is available,
then we wanna use the status of that.
So we're gonna say, navigator.on,
and don't forget the capital L line.
And otherwise, let's just assume true,
because if this isn't on,
we'll just assume that you probably
loaded this in an online scenario, okay?
So then what we wanna do is detect or
based upon that detection,
we want to flip the icon visible or not.
So basically the icon
starts out invisible, and
if we are not online at this
moment at the page load,
when [INAUDIBLE] loaded his file here,
we want to actually make that visible.
So I'm going to say if not,
isOnline at this exact moment,
let's start out that icon in
the state of being offline.
So we're going to say,
offlineIcon.classList.remove hidden.
Hidden is the name of the class if
you inspect the HTML you see this but
hidden is the name of the class that
is currently making it invisible.
So I'm going to remove that class name,
thereby making it visible,
and then we want to detect changes to it.
So we don't wanna just set-up a timer and
pull the navigator.online.
We wanna set-up listeners that listen for
that status changing, and it turns out
that there are two events that fire.
So we're gonna do
window.addEventListener and
the event that we want to listen for
is if we've gone into the online state.
>> Kyle Simpson: We're gonna assume that
if we've gone into the online state it was
because we were previously
in the offline state.
So we want to say,
offlineIcon.classList.add hidden.
>> Kyle Simpson: And then we wanna
change our Boolean variable to true,
isOnline equals true.
>> Kyle Simpson: The other
event is called offline.
So we're gonna listen for that event.
And do the reverse,
we will offLineIcon.classList.remove
hidden and isOnLine equals false
>> Speaker 2: Is this is supposed to
be online inNavigator or isNavigator?
>> Kyle Simpson: In.
>> Speaker 3: In.
>> Speaker 2: Sorry about that, in, right.
This, don't worry.
>> Kyle Simpson: Sorry, typo.
>> Speaker 2: I was like, whoa.
>> Kyle Simpson: We would have found
that in just a moment when we ran it,
we would have goten a syntax error.
Okay, let's try it in our browser.
When we refresh we shouldn't see anything
different but now when we switch over here
and click the offline,
we now see that is icon is visible.
That's the icon telling the user,
hey, you're not connected right now.
So just be aware that
things might be broken.
If you click on something,
it may or may not work.
Now, we're gonna try to make that as
graceful as possible, but obviously,
right now, if you were to click on
something, everything would fail.
And then when we toggle it back,
now the icon comes on.
We should point out this is only
detecting the user's connectivity status.
It's not detecting whether or
not they have a continuous connection to
the server, and we'll be able to load
things, you could probably fairly
straightforwardly set something like that
up with like a web socket that stayed
connected, and then if the web socket
ever disconnects then show the icon.
That would generally not be something I
would do with a static webpage, that'd be
something I did with an application
that really needed live connection,
like maybe it's getting live
stock ticker updates and
it really matters to the second whether
I know if I'm connected or not.
But here we're just trying to make a good
faith effort to let the user know,
you're in an offline mode,
just expect that you may not be able to
do everything that you can do
in the normal online mode.